# Geant4-ANL
This Repository includes all the work done during my research summer internship at Argonne National Lab (ANL), in summer of 2025, and will also serve as a space to share work done during the academic year. The aim of this project is to help new users of GEANT4 (G4), both researchers and students, to get started easily, since G4 is software that can be quite confusing at first. This work includes the complete installation of G4 on the Windows 11 operating system, using CMake and Visual Studio 2022 code, as well as an explanation of the basic functioning of a program, its structure, and the execution of the first tests. I also present the work done during the summer, which consists of the application of G4 in two fields of physics, which are nuclear physics and the application of medical physics in cancer radiotherapy. In the field of nuclear physics, I have simulated photonuclear reactions, such as the 197Au(gamma,n)196Au reaction or the 109Ag(gamma, alpha)105Rh reaction, calculating cross sections for different energies and producing distributions. In addition, I have also developed a program that uses the Bremsstrahlung effect to produce the gammas that impact the target material. In the field of medical physics, I present the use of the recent expansion of G4 called G4-DNA to study how radiation from the Auger Electron (AE) emitter Tb-155 affects the DNA of a cancer cell. All of these practical examples include their own Readmes explaining how the program and the classes used work, as well as all the code and files needed so that anyone who needs to can compile and run the examples.
